Title: Process Vocabulary Branch

Author: Claas-Thido Pfaff and the Ecological Vocabulary Development Group
	formed by members of the GFBio project and other related collaborators.

	#1 Workshop (05.12.2014)

	* Alexandra Weigelt (Uni Leipzig, iDiv)
	* Christian Wirth (Uni Leipzig, iDiv)
	* Nico Eisenhauer (iDiv)

	#2 Workshop (04.02.2015)

	* Alexandra Weigelt (Uni Leipzig, iDiv)
	* Bettina Ohse (Uni Leipzig, iDiv)
	* Christian Wirth (Uni Leipzig, iDiv)
	* David Eichenberg (Uni Leipzig)
	* Mario Liebergesell (Uni Leipzig, FUN-Div)

workshops #{{{

#1 Workshop

* Books
	+ Nutrient Acquisition by plants (H. BasiriRad, Springer)
	+ Ecological Climatology (Gordon Bonan, Cambridge)
	+ Principles of Terrestrial Ecosystem Ecology (Stuart Chapin III, Springer)

* Web
	+ http://bit.ly/1tOZ7Xk (Fundamental processes in Ecology)
	+ http://on.doi.gov/1z03W5H (USGS-GOV)
	+ http://bit.ly/1tOZotB (Core ecological concepts)
	+ http://bit.ly/1z04dWc (WP, Phenomena)

* Notes

	A first draft of the vocabulary for processes was presented. The participants
	discussed the structure and the contents of the vocabulary. Discussing and
	browsing literature the participants compiled a list of important processes
	revolving around the carbon cycle. The workshop ended with a top-level
	structure depicted below.

	Carbon Cycle
		Uptake and Assimilation (Transport + Transformation)
		Dissimilation and Release (Transformation + Transport)
		Uptake and Transport
		Transformation

* Agreements

	+ A more abstract version was requested from the workshop participants to cover
	  all element cycle related processes of ecological interest.

#2 Workshop

* Books
	+ Wörterbuch der Ökologie (Mattias Schaefer, ISBN: 978-3-8274-2561-4)

* Notes

	+ Time Scale, Organization Scale, Spatial Scale have been identified to be
	  more general concepts. The group argued that this needs to go into an own
	  top level dimension

		I argue that a derived form of these base dimensions is important to keep in
		the process facet for more semantically more powerful assertions about
		processes. Thus I added Process Time Scale, Process Organization Scale and
		Process Spatial Scale.


	=> Update:
		Further Discussions with Mario and David convinced me to put the scales aside.
		They are important for the processes but rather represent general information
		about the process if we use them in their derived process specific version.
		This information is highly valuable but might be hard to provide by the person
		tagging the data as either the information is missing or incomplete (e.g. Which
		organizational levels does a process act on, or which time does it take to
		develop visible impacts on parts of the ecosystem in general.)


* Agreements

	+ The Process Type and the cycle type need to be merged as the represent together
	  important process types. (check)

		=> Now cycles appear in the list of process instances!

	+ The concept of Service type does not fit well enough. We rather call it Process
	  identity (check)

		=> I argue against this as type is very specific while the identity comprises
		   more than one attribute I would say (it remains to be named as process type)

	+ While the Transport processes types are intuitive the transformation process types
	  are not. They have to be refined. (check)

		=> have been reworked according to the workshop discussions
			(Addition [A] -> [AB] , Removal [AB] -> [A], Increase (a -> A), Decrease (A -> a), Transition (A -> B), Conversion (AB <-> B + A))

	+ In Process Agents, the Agent implies an active participant or driver of the process
	  this does not all the sub-categories e.g. chemicals or spheres. This needs rework (check)

		=> Now this is called "Process Component" to get rid of the implication of an active
		   participation

	+ A list of processes needs to be accessible as well. The group was collecting instances
	  of processes in a top 20 list. This will be implemented as free field with auto completion
	  in the tagging framework and as a top 20 list to pick from (self sorting by importance) in
	  the faceted search

		=> lists top 20 now and many more below it (these need to be checked, cleaned, described and
		   mapped into the process vocabulary by a student helper.

#}}}

Documentation: #{{{

# Intro Processes

According to the Elsevier Dictionary of Biology (Tirri et al., 1998) a process
is defined as a series of events, reactions or operations, achieving a certain
definite result. Ecosystem processes can be seen as complex interactions among
biotic and abiotic parts of ecosystems which in broad terms encompasses
material cycles and the flow of energy (Lyons et al., 2005). Ecological
processes span large temporal, spatial and organizational scales. Interactions
occur across all scales of organization and in of active and passive parts of
an ecosystem. Ecology is basically interested in the scientific analysis of
interactions between organisms (biotic) and their environment (abiotic) as well
as in the resulting states of the processes like the adaption of species or
their distribution and abundance. Thus processes are a crucial part of our
ecological vocabulary.

# Intro Vocabulary

## Two access points

The vocabulary offers two different access points. The first way we refer to
the direct one as it covers the process by its name like it is found in the
literature. The second way of access is of a descriptive nature as it allows to
describe a processes by important attributes that for its identity like the
parts that are involved e.g. species and parts of, spheres, chemicals,
particles or the

# Process Identity

It is filled with life from other parts of the vocabulary with compartments
like the spheres of earth from the spherical branch and actors like organisms
from the organismic branch.  Components are either active as drivers or
catalytic converters of the process (organism, energy) or play a rather passive
role e.g.  spheres, chemicals.



## Base scales and process types

The vocabulary part that allows to describe the processes unfolds along the
categories of type and context. The type can be one or more of transport,
transformation, interaction or m

temporal, spatial and organizational

scale essential to ecological processes. The time scale describes how long the
process takes to develop visible impacts on agents in a system. The spatial
scale captures dimensions the process acts on in a two dimensional fashion.
The organization scale allows to further specify the contextual focus of the
process. The main energy source is the solar radiation and available resources
from reservoirs in ecosystems that serve as source for input and are consumed
by actors in the system to maintain their organisms. Basically energy and
matter flow through ecological systems either being modified or remaining
unchanged. This dichotomy makes up the classes for a discrimination of process
types. They are called transfer and transformation processes. A third class
called interactions is provided as well as ecological processes can be seen as
complex interactions among the parts of ecosystems.

# Relations

Relations further contextualize a processes. Thus the vocabulary covers typical
relations like to biogeochemical cycle, to ecosystem services and a base domain
they belong to (chemical, physical, biological).

# Agents And Roles

Agents can be everything involved in a process like the earths spheres,
organisms, chemical elements and compounds as well as physical forces that
modify or drive the process. Often a agent is referred to by a role (e.g.
Nutrient). Thus the vocabulary allows to describe processes using roles. For
example if we talk about the uptake of nutrients. Nutrient is not a class of
chemicals as such, but rather a helper classification that spans a broad range
of different elements and molecules that are consumed as nutrients by plants
and animals.

# Usage Example

Predation/Herbivory

* Process
	=> example needs update to new schema

	Process
		# name the thing
		Process Instance
			Branch Shedding

		# describe its identity
		Process Identity

			Process Type
				Transport Process
					Movement

			Process Component
				Sphere Component
					Biosphere Component

				Organism Component
					Plant Organism Component

				Partial Component
					Anatomic Component
						Plant Anatomic Component
							Branch Component

				Chemical Component
					Carbon Component
					Nutrient Component

# Discussion

While the vocabulary might appear to be very abstract on the first glance which
might make the revisers doubt its usefulness it is very powerful already and
might be better to understand with a short introduction. The vocabulary is
created from concepts with more abstract elements combining them with intuitive
and well known elements. For example. An Organism that is part of a process is
well known by the ecologist while the next step of abstraction the vocabulary
makes is to call it a organism agent to distinguish between talking about a
organism itself and the organism in the context of a process in that it
participates. Thus we find it under organism agents as it participates in the
process.

I am not sure how helpful it is to have a matter flux defined as concept. The
problem is that it is a physical attribute defining the rate of mass flow per
unit area. Actually this is a concept that is so broad that it might be true
for almost any processes in the end. I think this is true at least with a bit
of argumentation by the person who is tagging the data. It then will be a
concept that captures a highly diverse set of processes which in turn lowers
the value using it. The erosion of soil would be an example of a broad
interpretation of a matter flux but litter fall as well and what about the
migration of animals. Here the categorization strongly relies on individual
point of view and granularity aspects. I think that it would be better to be
more specific in that case.

Another aspect that I see with this is that it can be hard to think in an
abstract way like for example defining erosion as matter flux. This could also
lead to the problem that researchers using the vocabulary will rather tend to
not see it like this as they come from a more practical perspective naming the
things by their name just saying erosion is the concept erosion and thats it.
That could lead to frustration if you run into an abstract vocabulary where you
do not find the typical concepts that you use to describe what you have done
and thus if you are forced to use the vocabulary to a heavy use of the category
unknown.

There is for example the Biological Process Ontology that describes a process
as:

A biological process is a recognized series of events or molecular functions. A
process is a collection of molecular events with a defined beginning and end.
Mutant phenotypes often reflect disruptions in biological processes.  This is
not very helpful in the context of ecology as it is the specific context of
biological processes it is talking about

#}}}

# the vocabulary:

Process #{{{
	o abb:
	o syn:
	o imp:
	o des: According to the Elsevier Dictionary of Biology (Tirri et al., 1998) a process
               is defined as a series of events, reactions or operations, achieving a certain
               definite result. Ecosystem processes are seen therefore as the complex
               interactions among biotic and abiotic elements of ecosystems, encompassing in
               broad terms material cycles and the flow of energy (Lyons et al., 2005).
	o std:
	o lan:
	o src:
	o lit:
	o mat:

	Process Instances #{{{
		o abb:
		o syn:
		o imp:
		o des: Process instances lists important processes of ecological interest
		o std:
		o lan:
		o src:
		o lit:
		o mat:

		# top process instances

		Assimilation
		Birth
		Carbon Cycle
		Communication
		Competition
		Consumption
		Death
		Dissimilation
		Disturbance
		Energy Exchange
		Extinction
		Facilitation
		Growth
		Immigration
		Land use change
		Migration
		Nutrient Cycle
		Speciation
		Water Cycle

		# more process instances (free field: type, auto complete, most important appear first)

		Abiotic decomposition
		Abrasion
		Advection (Transport of air and moisture that is in gaseous state)
		Ammonification (Organic Nitrogen to Ammonium)
		Animal migration
		Assimilation (Nitrate in soil {NO3-} ---converted to---> Nitrite {NO2-} Ammonium {NH4-} ---put into---> Asparagine, Glutamine)
		Autotroph Carbon Assimilation
		Bioaccumulation
		Biotic decomposition
		Branch Shedding
		Breathing
		Browsing
		Carbon Assimilation
		Carbon Exchange
		Carbon Storage (Trees or Forest)
		Carbon emission
		Carbon sequestration
		Chemosynthesis
		Combustion
		Condensation
		Decay
		Decomposition (Organic material to more simple chemicals)
		Defecation
		Denitrification (Reduction of nitrates to Nitrogen)
		Desorption
		Desublimation
		Dispersal
		Dissimilation (Mobilization of stored energy Fats, Carbohydrates)
		Drinking
		Ecosystem degradation
		Enzymatic transformation of organic molecules. Today often refers to any
		Erosion
		Eutrophication
		Eutrophication (may be rather a state!)
		Evaporation
		Evapotranspiration
		Extinction
		Exudation (ecology: excretion of amino acids, mono-saccharides and other organic molecules)
		Exuding (often excretion of amino acids, mono-saccharides and other organic molecules)
		Fermentation
		Filtration
		Fossilisation
		Fragmentation
		Freezing
		Gene loss
		Gene transfer
		Genetic Drift (Composition of a gene pool)
		Grazing
		Groundwater Flow (Flux of ground water)
		Groundwater Recharge (Flux of surface water to the water table surface)
		Groundwater flow (Flux of ground water)
		Growth
		Guttation
		Habitat Fragmentation
		Habitat Loss
		Heterotroph Carbon Assimilation
		Humification
		Hunting
		Infiltration (Uptake of falling precipitation into the soil)
		Internal Respiration (Heterotroph respiration, Autotroph Respiration)
		Leaching
		Leaf Shedding
		Litter Production
		Melting
		Migration
		Mutation
		Nectar secretion
		Nitrification
		Nitrification (Conversion of ammonium to nitrate)
		Nitrogen Assimilation (External to internal Nitrogen)
		Nitrogen Fixation (Nitrogen in the atmosphere to Ammonium)
		Nitrogen Release
		Nitrogen storage
		Ocean-Atmosphere Carbon Exchange
		Percolation (Downward movement of soil moisture)
		Phosphate assimilation (Uptake of phosphate over root used as a substrate for e.g. ATP)
		Phosphor Release
		Photosynthesis
		Plant Water Absorption
		Pollination
		Pollution
		Precipitation (Falling water)
		Predation
		Primary Growth
		Primary production
		Pyrolysis
		Reproduction
		Respiration
		Salt secreting
		Scavenging
		Secondary Growth
		Sedimentation (Sinking of particles in a fluid medium)
		Seed Dispersal
		Soil formation
		Soil-Atmosphere Carbon Exchange
		Speciation
		Sublimation
		Subsurface Flow (Flux of sub surface water)
		Succession
		Sulfur Assimilation
		Sulfur Release
		Surface Runoff (Water running of the surface)
		Survival
		Symbiosis
		Thermochemical decomposition of organic material at elevated temperature and in
		Transpiration (Plant driven movement of water from the soil to the atmosphere)
		UV-Degradation
		Volatile Emission
		Water - Atmosphere Carbon Exchange
		Water Exchange
		Water Uptake
		Climate change

		# Biotic Interaction

	#}}}

	Process Attributes #{{{
		o abb:
		o syn:
		o imp:
		o des: The process attributes made up of the specification of the general type of a
                       process the process context and the components that are involved. It allows for
                       a detailed breakdown of the process dimensions and thus for a more versatile
                       access to processes on the discovery of data.
		o std:
		o lan:
		o src:
		o lit:
		o mat:

		Process Trigger
			o abb:
			o syn:
			o imp:
			o des: Process triggers caputre assertions about events that triggered the process described
			o std:
			o lan:
			o src:
			o lit:
			o mat:


			Disturbance Event
				Earthquake
				Firestorms
				Flooding
				Insect Outbreaks
				Trampling
				Tsunami
				Volcanic eruption
				Windstorms
				Air Pollution
				CO2 emission
				Clear-cutting
				Invasion
				Land use change
				Light Pollution
				Nitrogen deposition
				Pollution
				# ... other

		Process Type #{{{
			o abb:
			o syn:
			o imp:
			o des:
			o std: The generic types of processes describing the ecological process of interest
			o lan:
			o src:
			o lit:
			o mat:

			Transport Process #{{{
				o abb:
				o syn:
				o imp:
				o des: Transport processes embrace the uptake, the storage, the release and the plain
				       and simple movements of matter and energy that appear across all scales of
				       ecological interest.
				o std:
				o lan:
				o src:
				o lit:
				o mat:

				Uptake Process
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Release Process
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Exchange Process
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Movement Process
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:
			#}}}

			Transformation Process #{{{
				o abb:
				o syn:
				o imp:
				o des: Transformation processes enclose the addition, the removal the loss, the change
				       of state of matter as well as structural and compositional changes that appear
				       across all scales of ecological interest.
				o std:
				o lan:
				o src:
				o lit:
				o mat:

				Removal Process
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des: Describes the removal of something from an object of observation. For example
					       if we observe water moving through a filter material like sand then the filter
					       will remove certain contents e.g. pollutants from the water and it gets
					       cleaned (Filtration).
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Addition Process
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des: Describes the addition of something to an object of observation. For example
					       the discharge of nutrients from nearby fields into a standing body of water
					       (Pollution).
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Increase Process
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des: Describes the increase of something in the ecosystem context. For example growth of a tree due to
					       an increase in biomass.
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Decrease Process
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des: Describes the decrease of something in the ecosystem context. This can be e.g.
					       habitats (habitat loss), species (extinction), or anatomic parts (branch shedding) or a loss of biomass due to disturbances. (A -> a)
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Transition Process
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des: Transitions mean processes with a transition from one thing into another. This
                                               embraces physical state changes of chemical compounds (Evaporation,
                                               Condensation, Sublimation, Desublimation, Melting, Freezing), the genesis of
                                               new species as well as the exchange of bases in DNA on mutation (A -> B).
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Conversion Process
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des: Conversions describe processes that combine and form or break down things for
                                               example chemical compounds e.g. in anabolic and catabolic processes.
                                               Furthermore this embraces e.g assimilation, dissimilation (AB -> C, C -> AB)
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

			#}}}

			Interaction Process #{{{
				o abb:
				o syn:
				o imp:
				o des: Comprises all sorts interactions appearing across and in between the
				       scales of interest in ecology (Trophic Interactions, Predation, Herbivory,
				       Pollination, Communication)
				o std:
				o lan:
				o src:
				o lit:
				o mat:

				# Neutralism (0 / 0)
				# Amensalism (0 / -)
				# Ecological facilitation
					# Commensalism (+ / 0)
					# Mutualism (+ / +) (syn. Symbiosis)
				# Competition (- / -)
				# Antagonism (+ / -)
					# Predation
					# Herbivory
					# Parasitism (Host survives)
					# Parasitoism (Host dies)

			#}}}

		#}}}

		Process Component #{{{
			o abb:
			o syn:
			o imp:
			o des: Members of the process components represent active as well as the passive parts
			       involved in a process. This includes e.g. organisms and spheres but also parts
			       of these like particles and anatomical entities. Additionally this includes
			       chemical and physical influences that are involved in, modify or drive process
			       like solar radiation, heat or humidity.
			o std:
			o lan:
			o src:
			o lit:
			o mat:

			Sphere Component #{{{
				o abb:
				o syn:
				o imp:
				o des: A Sphere component describes the spheres involved in a process. They usually
				       have a passive role in a process e.g. as source or sink.
				o std:
				o lan:
				o src:
				o lit:
				o mat:

				Biosphere Component
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Hydrosphere Component
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Atmosphere Component
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Pedosphere Component
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Lithosphere Component
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:
			#}}}

			Organism Component #{{{
				o abb:
				o syn:
				o imp:
				o des: Organism agents capture the type of organisms and organism roles involved in the process
				o std:
				o lan:
				o src:
				o lit:
				o mat:

				Eubacteria Component
				Archaea Component
				Eukaryota Component

			#}}}

			Partial Component #{{{
				o abb:
				o syn:
				o imp:
				o des: The partial agent captures assertiona about parts of spheres and organisms that are involved in
				       the process.
				o std:
				o lan:
				o src:
				o lit:
				o mat:

				Particle Component
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des: The particle agent is a part of a compartment or an actor involved in the
					       process.
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

					# e.g. Soil Particle
					# e.g. Sediment Particle

				Anatomic Component
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des: Captures anatomical parts of plants and animals involved in the
					       process (e.g. useful for branch-, leaf shedding)
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

					Plant Anatomic Component
						o abb:
						o syn:
						o imp:
						o des:
						o std:
						o lan:
						o src:
						o lit:
						o mat:

						Root Component
							o abb:
							o syn:
							o imp:
							o des:
							o std:
							o lan:
							o src:
							o lit:
							o mat:

						Stem Component
							o abb:
							o syn:
							o imp:
							o des:
							o std:
							o lan:
							o src:
							o lit:
							o mat:

						Branch Component
							o abb:
							o syn:
							o imp:
							o des:
							o std:
							o lan:
							o src:
							o lit:
							o mat:

						Leaf Component
							o abb:
							o syn:
							o imp:
							o des:
							o std:
							o lan:
							o src:
							o lit:
							o mat:

						Flower Component
							o abb:
							o syn:
							o imp:
							o des:
							o std:
							o lan:
							o src:
							o lit:
							o mat:

					Animal Anatomical Component
						o abb:
						o syn:
						o imp:
						o des:
						o std:
						o lan:
						o src:
						o lit:
						o mat:
				#}}}

			Chemical Component #{{{
				o abb:
				o syn:
				o imp:
				o des: The chemical agents represent abiotic factors involved in an ecological process
				       like elements, compounds, complexes as well as chemical roles that reference a
				       group of chemicals in a certain context.
				o std:
				o lan:
				o src:
				o lit:
				o mat:

				# Element Component (N, C, P)
				# Compound Component (Carbohydrates, Fats)
				# Complex Component (Charcoal, Humus)
				# Roles Component (Nutrient, Attractant)

			#}}}

			Physical Component #{{{
				o abb:
				o syn:
				o imp:
				o des: A physical agent represents abiotic factors of physical nature involved or
				       influencing an ecological process.
				o std:
				o lan:
				o src:
				o lit:
				o mat:

				Solar Radiation Component
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Heat Component
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Humidity Component
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:
			#}}}

		#}}}

		Process Orientation #{{{
			The process orientation is an essential part of the process context. It allows to
			capture the general orientation of the underlying mechanisms of the process. An
			example for this would be physical erosion, chemical erosion, biological
			erosion.

			Physical Orientation
				o abb:
				o syn:
				o imp:
				o des:
				o std:
				o lan:
				o src:
				o lit:
				o mat:

			Chemical Orientation
				o abb:
				o syn:
				o imp:
				o des:
				o std:
				o lan:
				o src:
				o lit:
				o mat:

			Biological Orientation
				o abb:
				o syn:
				o imp:
				o des:
				o std:
				o lan:
				o src:
				o lit:
				o mat:
		#}}}

		Process Relation #{{{
			o abb:
			o syn:
			o imp:
			o des: Links processes to other important concepts e.g. services
			o std:
			o lan:
			o src:
			o lit:
			o mat:

			Service Type
				Supporting Service
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Provisioning Service
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Regulating Service
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Cultural Service
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

			#}}}

	#}}}

#}}}


# saved away:

# This has been removed as it represents rather metadata about the process. I
# think however that this can be handled differently when creating an ontology.
# Then we can define cardinalities that describe processes to have a portion of
# these generic dimensions!

=> Ask Naouel on Monday

			Process Time Scale #{{{
				o abb:
				o syn:
				o imp:
				o des: The time scale is an essential part of the process context. It describes the
				       the time range a process takes to develop visible impacts on actors and
				       compartments in a described system. If no general information is available on
				       how long the process takes to become visible in the literature the time of
				       observation can be used as an value of thumb as this time scale already allowed
				       to show a process.
				o std:
				o lan:
				o src:
				o lit:
				o mat:

				< Second Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Second Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Minute Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Day Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Month Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Year Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Decade Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Century Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				> Century Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:
			#}}}

			Process Organization Scale #{{{
				o abb:
				o syn:
				o imp:
				o des: The organization scale is an essential part of the process context. It shows
				       the organizational focus the process is observed in. While the organizational
				       scale ranges from galaxies over the solar system down to organism and molecular
				       levels, ecology is focused on the intermediate levels in the organizational
				       hierarchy.
				o std:
				o lan:
				o src:
				o lit:
				o mat:

				## to large
				# Galaxy Scale
				# Solar System Scale
				# Earth Scale

				# important for ecology

				Biosphere Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Ecosystem Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Community Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Population Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Organism Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				## to small
				# Organs Scale
				# Tissues Scale
				# Cells Scale
				# Protoplasm Scale
				# Molecules Scale
			# }}}

			Process Spatial Scale # {{{
				o abb:
				o syn:
				o imp:
				o des: The time scale is an essential part of the process context. It describes the
				       two dimensional frame the process acts in. If no general information about the
				       spatial scale of a process is available in the literature the spatial scale of
				       a particular observation can be used instead.
				o std:
				o lan:
				o src:
				o lit:
				o mat:

				Point Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Plot Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Region Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Continent Scale
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:

				Global Scale # {{{
					o abb:
					o syn:
					o imp:
					o des:
					o std:
					o lan:
					o src:
					o lit:
					o mat:
					# }}}
				# }}}
